# CS360-H7097---Mobile-Architecture-Programming-22EW6
CS360 Projects 

Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

The requirements for the Event Tracking app was centered on the idea of having at least 3 screens: Login, view events, and create a new event. The App was designed to serve as a quick and easy to use, one stop shop, or on-the-go solution for users to plan, stay organized, and keep up-to-date/on track with their events whether it is business, personal, academic or leisure related events. The Event Tracker App aimed to make the process of creating an account, planning, and/or tracking an existing event an experience to last for as little as five-minutes. The App was created with three basic user groups in mind. These included the user who seeks to have a start to end/well-planned day or event. Another user will be someone who needs reminders in order to stay on track or keep up with certain tasks. The third user will be someone who will be more interested in getting information on (fun) events like concerts, shows etc.

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

To support the user needs for this application, two primary (main and login) screens were vital in terms of providing the UI for the user to interface or interact with. It also in a way defined the main purpose of the app. Additional screens as per the requirements were the Event Activity screen, the Messaging Permissions screen, and the Event Management screen. All of these screens served as a way for the user to be able to interact with the app in terms of tracking, viewing, creating, managing, and deleting events. Additionally, there was the added functionality of allowing notifications via messaging. Each screen ensured that the user was taking an action in one way or another.  My design aimed to give the user a simple, interactive, less cumbersome experience. 

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?

My mindset is always one where I try to interpret and/or understand requirements from the perspective of an end user or a real-life user as opposed to that of a software development practitioner or a solution provider. In terms of coding, I typically prefer to code in blocks, test, and then continue. I typically tend to look at Software development/design as a process that involves much more than understanding the function(s) and/or object orientation of a program. I think understanding the breakdown of the software, where by for example each sub-system is treated as a system on its own that gets decomposed further, such that the lowest level of the system (In a somewhat top-down hierarchy) is eventually achieved is key. In this approach the coding process begins with a generalized model of the system, which then will continue to be defined (by specific parts), until the smallest portion of it is complete. Peer review, applying (automated) testing techniques, adhering to industry standards, considering OS versions, and deployment plan are techniques/strategies that will help me in the future.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?

While I find it necessary to sometimes use different IDE’s (debuggers) to make sure my code is functional, I did find that the Android Studio debugger was adequate for the job. I ran unit testing to ensure my code was functional and in alignment with the requirements.  For example, I ran an integrated test for when there was a parent and sub classes, as well as a regression test to determine the outcome for when there was a change in configuration.  In addition to JUnit testing, I did also extend testing for Boundary Value Analysis, Equivalence Partitioning etc. Automated testing technique was important since we used code and scripts to automatically check the app, reason for which I also implemented some exploratory testing just as a second check to make sure my code met standards and was functional. Being that the requirements were clear, this also meant using checklist-testing technique to ensure we were in alignment (from a quality perspective) with the client’s needs. Testing is important to ensure your code is sound, safe and secure. 

Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

One thing I noticed working with Android Studio was that the layout of certain screens did not necessary need a lot of coding since adjustments (like realigning text fields, buttons, etc.) could be done from the layout editor or design screen itself. It help quite a bit because you could also see (visually) how dependencies were applied or how they worked (cohesively) on the different functions/tabs of the app. 

In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

I think the release plan was my biggest strength. I think being able to see the app as a whole from start to finish gave a sense of success in many ways. 
